# Questions 23/04/2023 (Nr: 84)

- What are the different types of tokens, and can you provide an example for each type?
- What is the difference between fungible and non-fungible tokens?
- What is the difference between intrinsic and extrinsic tokens?
- What is the difference between utility and equity tokens?
- What is ERC223 and ERC721?
- What is the ERC20 standard, and what are the required and optional functions defined by it?
- What is the main purpose of oracles in the Ethereum blockchain?
- What is the Immediate Read Oracle design pattern, and can you provide an example of its use?
- What is the Request-Response Oracle design pattern, and how does it work?
- What are the two main ways of data authentication for oracles?
- What is IPFS, and how does it work?
- What is Swarm, and how is it similar to IPFS?
- What are Decentralized Message Communications Protocols, and which one is the most notable for DApps?
- What is ENS?
- What is the issue of governance in DApps?
- Why is the nonce value in a transaction important?
- How are nonces tracked, and what are the issues that can arise with nonces?
- What is the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)?
- What is the Ethereum world state?
- What is the difference between the code used when creating and deploying a smart contract?
- What is gas in the context of the EVM, and how does it work?
- What are smart contracts, and what is their functionality?
- What are the characteristics of smart contracts?
- What is the lifecycle of a smart contract, and how is it triggered?
- What is the difference between declarative and imperative programming languages, and can you provide some examples of each?
- What is the Solidity ABI, and how is it used?
- What is Ethereum, and what are its key components?
- How does Ethereum deal with DoS attacks and overuse of resources?
- What is gas in Ethereum, and how is it used?
- What is the incentive for participants in Ethereum's consensus algorithm?
- What is the structure of a transaction?
- How does the ECDSA work?
- Explain the PoS algorithm.
- Explain the PoW algorithm.
- What is the difference between HD wallets and deterministic (seeded) wallets and nondeterministic (random) wallets?
- What is the difference between a transaction and a message?
- What is the use of an interface or function without implementation?
- What are automated market makers?
- What are collateral tokens?
- What is a collateralized stablecoin?
- What is fiat currency?
- What is a liquidity pool?
- Explain open position, its meaning, and risk in trading.
- What is slippage?
- What is spot price?
- Explain asymmetric vs symmetric cryptography.
- Explain what SHA-256 is, how it works, and its usage.
- Explain what you know about storage vs. memory vs. calldata.
- How can access control vulnerability arise?
- Explain the account existence check for low-level calls.
- Explain the arithmetic under/overflow vulnerability.
- Explain the assert attack.
- Explain the bad interface DOS vulnerability.
- Explain the block timestamp manipulation vulnerability.
- What is the bypassing contract check vulnerability?
- Can you produce code with no effects in Solidity?
- Explain the code size check vulnerability.
- Explain the low-level function Delegatecall and the vulnerability that can occur when using it without caution.
- Explain Denial of Service (DoS) attacks in Solidity.
- Explain DoS with block gas limit.
- Explain the concept of entropy illusion.
- Explain the flash loan attack.
- Explain the floating point and precision vulnerabilities.
- Explain the function selector abuse vulnerability.
- Explain smart contract gas griefing.
- Explain hash collision and what parameters can lead to it.
- What is improper array deletion in Solidity?
- Explain call/transfer with hardcoded gas amount and how it can lead to a vulnerability
- Explain the oracle manipulation vulnerability
- Explain the public burn function vulnerability
- Explain the read-only reentrancy vulnerability
- Explain the single function reentrancy vulnerability
- Explain the cross function reentrancy vulnerability
- What is Race Conditions/Front Running vulnerability
- Very briefly explain Right-To-Left-Override control character (U+202E) vulnerability
- What does it mean to shadow state Variables?
- Very briefly explain  Short Address / Parameter attack
- Explain Signature Malleability
- Explain Signature Replay
- What issues can arise from using Tx.origin ?
- Explain Unchecked CALL Return Values vulnerability
- Explain Unexpected ether vulnerability?
- Explain Uninitialized Storage Pointers vulnerability?
- How can we prevent unsafe iwnership transfer?